#### Educational Attainment: Less Than High School

Educational Attainment levels organized by the U.S. Census' American Community Survey is important for a number of various policies implemented at all levels of government. However, for the purposes of understanding need in a given community, high school completion can speak volumes about the challenges facing a community. This is because education is a powerful resource for all persons wanting to obtain upward mobility. Having a substantial amount of education credentials under your belt can open doors, provide new experiences, and increase your likelihood of earning more income and decrease your likelihood of living in persistent poverty. By understanding which communities experience low levels of educational attainment, we can glean some understanding about the level of need in that specific community. Further, when analyses have been conducted between 2-1-1 calls in the Greater Austin Area, strong relationships between high call volumes and educational attainment have been demonstrated over time. 

To determine the population of people 25 years of age and older who have less than a high school education, ACS calculates the population surveyed in America whose educational attainment level approached finishing high school, but did not receive a diploma. In other words, it includes everyone who reported completing no schooling whatsoever as well people who reported completing only elementary school, middle school, etc.---all the way up through completing 12th grade. However, the threshold is when someone completing 12th grade does not complete all the requirements necessary to earn a high school diploma which places them in the category of having less than a high school education. 

To calculate the rate of people 25 years of age and older who have less than a high school education, you take the population of people having attained less than a high school education and divide it by the total population surveyed for all levels of educational attainment. 

#### No Health Insurance Coverage

Like educational attainment, health insurance coverage can communicate specific information about need in a community. Often, people who secure full-time employment are usually eligible for some kind of health insurance coverage. Additionally, the Affordable Care Act has opened new pathways for securing health insurance that were previously unavaiable to those without health benefits from full-time employment. Like the "Less Than a HS Education" figure and the "Income to Poverty Ratios", this figure summarizes several subgroups reported by the ACS who reported not having health insurance coverage and divides it by the people surveyed for health insurance coverage.